Added new kb article data-binding-qrcode-net-maui (#1090)
telerik/maui-docs: knowledge-base/data-binding-qrcode-net-maui.md

---
title: Data Binding with QRCode in .NET MAUI Applications
description: Learn how to bind a QRCode to a property in the ViewModel in a .NET MAUI application using the Telerik Barcode component.
type: how-to
page_title: How to Implement Data Binding for QRCode in .NET MAUI
slug: data-binding-qrcode-net-maui
tags: barcode, qrcode, databinding, .net maui, viewmodel, bindingcontext
res_type: kb
ticketid: 1680174
---

## Environment

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Product</td>
<td>Barcode for .NET MAUI</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Version</td>
<td>9.0.0</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Description

> As with any other Bindable Property, you can bind the `Value` property of the [RadBarcode](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/maui/controls/barcode/2d-barcodes/qrcode-overview) to a property in the ViewModel, allowing dynamic updates of the QR code in the UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As with any other bindable property, you can bind the `Value` property of the [`RadBarcode`](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/maui/controls/barcode/2d-barcodes/qrcode-overview) to a property in the view model, allowing dynamic updates of the QR code in the UI.
```

## Solution

To achieve dynamic updates of a QRCode in a .NET MAUI application, follow these steps:

> 1. Ensure the RadBarcode is properly configured in your XAML with the correct binding to the ViewModel property. Use the `Value` attribute to bind to the ViewModel property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Ensure the `RadBarcode` is properly configured in your XAML with the correct binding to the view model property. Use the `Value` attribute to bind to the view model property.
```

```xml
<telerik:RadBarcode WidthRequest="160" HeightRequest="160"
                    HorizontalOptions="Center" VerticalOptions="Center"
                    Margin="0, 10, 0, 0" Value="{Binding SelectedCity}">
    <telerik:RadBarcode.Symbology>
        <telerik:QRCode SizingMode="Stretch" CodeMode="Byte"
                        ErrorCorrectionLevel="H" ECIMode="ISO8859_1"
                        FNC1Mode="SecondPosition" ApplicationIndicator="00"/>
    </telerik:RadBarcode.Symbology>
</telerik:RadBarcode>
```

> 2. In your ViewModel, implement the property to which the RadBarcode's `Value` is bound. Ensure this property notifies the UI of changes, typically by implementing the `INotifyPropertyChanged` interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In your view model, implement the property to which the Barcode's `Value` is bound. Ensure this property notifies the UI of changes, typically by implementing the `INotifyPropertyChanged` interface.
```

```csharp
public class MainPageViewModel : Telerik.Maui.Controls.NotifyPropertyChangedBase
{
    private string selectedCity;

    public ObservableCollection<string> Cities { get; set; }

    public string SelectedCity
    {
        get => selectedCity;
        set => UpdateValue(ref selectedCity, value);
    }

    public MainPageViewModel()
    {
        Cities = new ObservableCollection<string>
        {
            "Madrid", "Los Angeles", "Paris", "Beijing",
            "Singapore", "New Delhi", "Bangkok", "Berlin"
        };

        SelectedCity = Cities.FirstOrDefault();
    }
}
```

> 3. Bind the ViewModel to the View's `BindingContext` to establish the data binding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Bind the view model to the View's `BindingContext` to establish the data binding.
```

```csharp
public partial class MainPage : ContentPage
{
    public MainPage()
    {
        InitializeComponent();
        BindingContext = new MainPageViewModel();
    }
}
```

4. Optionally, use a control like `RadComboBox` to change the selected city and see the QRCode update in real-time.

```xml
<telerik:RadComboBox ItemsSource="{Binding Cities}" 
                     SelectedItem="{Binding SelectedCity, Mode=TwoWay}"
                     WidthRequest="200" HorizontalOptions="Center"
                     VerticalOptions="Center" Grid.Row="1"/>
```

## See Also

> - [RadBarcode Overview](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/maui/controls/barcode/overview)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Barcode Overview](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/maui/controls/barcode/overview)
```
